---
title: How to add and remove users in Secure Remote Access | UKCloud Ltd
description: Describes how you can request users to be added or removed from the UKCloud Secure Remote Access (SRA) service
services: sra
author: Sue Highmoor

toc_rootlink: How To
toc_sub1:
toc_sub2:
toc_sub3:
toc_sub4:
toc_title: Add and remove users
toc_fullpath: How To/sra-how-add-remove-users.md
toc_mdlink: sra-how-add-remove-users.md
---

# How to add and remove users in Secure Remote Access

## Overview

Secure Remote Access (SRA) enables system administrators, mobile and remote workers to securely access workloads running on the UKCloud Elevated OFFICIAL cloud platform from locations that don't have alternative secure network connections to PSN Protected.

## Adding users

To add users to the SRA service offered by UKCloud, you'll need to raise a Service Request within the UKCloud Portal. This Service Request should include Certificate Requests generated by the clients you wish to add to the service. UKCloud will then send Certificates back via an email or via the Service Request. These certificates should then be copied into the devices' certificate stores.

You'll also need to install the Cisco AnyConnect Client application and connection policy to each of the devices. You can find more information about this in the [*Getting Started Guide for Secure Remote Access*](sra-gs.md).

## Removing users

To remove a device from the SRA service offered by UKCloud, you'll need to raise a Service Request within the UKCloud Portal. This service request should contain the certificate ID for the device that needs to be revoked and can be found in the subject line of the certificate. We'll then revoke the certificate to prevent any further access. You can also delete the certificate and private key from the device you wish to stop access from.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As part of the assurance wrap process, you'll be required to show that the devices used for remote access can be managed remotely, including revoking access in an emergency situation by disabling the device or the user account. You should not rely on UKCloud's support team as the only route for removing the ability to remotely access your environment.

## Feedback

If you have any comments on this document or any other aspect of your UKCloud experience, send them to <products@ukcloud.com>.