---
title: Email and Collaboration as a Service FAQs | UKCloud Ltd
description: Frequently asked questions for Email and Collaboration as a Service
services: email
author: Matt Warner
reviewer:
lastreviewed: 24/07/2018 13:50:39
toc_rootlink: FAQs
toc_sub1: 
toc_sub2:
toc_sub3:
toc_sub4:
toc_title: Email and Collaboration as a Service FAQs
toc_fullpath: FAQs/email-faq.md
toc_mdlink: email-faq.md
---

# Email and Collaboration as a Service FAQs

## What is the service?

Email and Collaboration as a Service provides a range of productivity
tools, including email, calendaring and tasks, which help an
organisation's end users to work in a secure, efficient and effective
way.

## What makes up Email and Collaboration as a Service?

UKCloud manages the underlying infrastructure and application, ensuring
the integrity of the email solution and mailbox availability. The
customer is responsible for customising and managing the solution in
terms of users, devices and client applications.

## How is Email and Collaboration as a Service billed?

The service is charged per mailbox per month (or part thereof) which
includes 1GB of mailbox storage. There is a charge of £1 per 1GB of
additional storage per mailbox per month. Charges vary depending on the
number of mailboxes and whether the service is hosted in the OFFICIAL
Assured or Elevated platform. The pricing is stacked and applied for the
number of mailboxes within the specified tier. For example, our first 2
tiers are, 1 \< 499 and 500 - 999; if you have 600 mailboxes you will
pay the first 499 at Tier 1 rate and the next 101 at the Tier 2 rate,
the introduction of additional mailboxes up to total of 999 will be
charged at Tier 2 rate, when the number of mailboxes exceeds 999 the
additional mailboxes will be charged at Tier 3 rate.

## Does UKCloud offer a free trial?

Yes, we appreciate you might have various concerns about the suitability
of our service to run your specific workloads. As we're confident that
our service will exceed your expectations, we offer a 30-day free trial
so that you can test and evaluate our service without commitment. Your
trial provides you with a live environment on the UKCloud platform to
test our services and verify whether they are suited to your needs.

Before your trial, a Cloud Architect will engage with you to identify
the goals you're working towards, to help ensure that your trial meets
those goals.

Throughout the trial period, a Customer Success Manager (CSM) will
provide support for any issues you may encounter or questions you may
have.

At the end of your free trial, you can seamlessly move to a billed
service, leveraging any of the work you've already completed in the live
trial environment.

Please note, this is for up to 500 users in a single organisation on
request.

## How do I request for a free trial?

You can request a trial via the [UKCloud website](http://www.ukcloud.com/free-trial-sign-up)
and accept the trial terms and conditions. Your environment will then be
set up and you will receive trial credits to the equivalent of £500.

## What happens when my trial comes to an end?

Your Cloud Architect or CSM will contact you when your trial is due to
end, either because you have used up all of your credits or because you
have reached 30 days (whichever is sooner).

At the end of your trial, you can transition to production or cease the
trial.

## Where is the service hosted?

The service is delivered from two secure UK data centres by UKCloud.

## Does my data leave the UK?

As the solution is delivered from UK data centres by a UK company, your
data doesn't leave the UK when at rest. In addition, the solution
provides encrypted client connectivity using FIPS 140‑2 and S/MIME for
digital signatures and email encryption. There are also tools to
configure administration rights, create audit trails and set access
controls for application and data sharing.

## How is Email and Collaboration supported?

UKCloud manages and supports the platform in the UK. Depending on the
mail client you choose, it may be supported by the third-party provider
and not covered under our SLA. Wherever possible, UKCloud will also work
with Zimbra to help resolve any compatibility issues.

## Can I use Email and Collaboration in the UKCloud Elevated (previously PGA IL3) environment?

Yes, Email and Collaboration as a Service is available on both the
Assured and Elevated OFFICIAL platforms.

## Can I use Email and Collaboration over closed networks such as PSN, N3 or JANET?

Yes, you can connect via PSN Assured, PSN Protected, Janet and N3; via
legacy GCF networks including PNN; or by HybridConnect using your own
dedicated circuits such as CPS-encrypted tunnels, leased lines or MPLS.

## Is the service Pan Government Accredited?

UKCloud's existing PGA still applies to the infrastructure underpinning
our services, but since the move to the Government Security
Classification Policy (GSCP), we are no longer able to seek PGA for our
services.

We are now required to self-assess our services, with customers then
responsible for assessing and selecting the most appropriate cloud
services which meet their individual security requirements.

We provide confidence that the service still meets the highest level of
information assurance, which is why we continue to conduct independent
testing and validation of our platform, and have the findings made
available to our customers and partners, enabling their SIROs to make an
informed decision about self-asserting any service they choose to
consume.

Email and Collaboration as a Service is suitable for all data classified
at OFFICIAL, including OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE, under the Government Security
Classification Policy (GSCP), and for legacy IL0--IL4 solutions.

## Which email clients are compatible with Email and Collaboration as a Service? 

There is support for a wide variety of web browsers and clients. The
list below is for guidance only. Visit the following page for further
information:
<https://files.zimbra.com/website/docs/Zimbra%20Collaboration%20Product%20Overview.pdf>

- Advanced web client (Ajax) - Microsoft Internet Explorer, Firefox,
    Safari and Google Chrome

- Standard web client (HTML) - Microsoft Internet Explorer, Firefox,
    Safari and Google Chrome

- Desktop clients - Zimbra Desktop, Microsoft Outlook 2003--2013,
    Apple iSync; any POP or IMAP-supported client

- Mobile access - iOS, Android, Blackberry and Windows smartphones
    and tablets

In addition, the solution includes Messaging Application Programming
Interface (MAPI) synchronisation to Microsoft Outlook
2013/2010/2007/2003 with full delegate, offline access and support for
S/MIME

## Can I migrate my email from another service or data store?

Yes. The solution includes a migration wizard to help you migrate from
an existing solution to Email and Collaboration as a Service.

We can help facilitate a bulk migration to the platform using local data
import. This is priced on a time-and-materials basis from the UKCloud
SFIA rate card.

We can also recommend partners who specialise in this service.

## Can I use a specific email domain name?

Yes, you can use any domain name that you have registered, that is
hosted by a DNS provider, and is authorised for use on your required
network connection.

## Can UKCloud host DNS?

Unfortunately, UKCloud is not a DNS host provider. However, there are a
number of established providers in the UK. Please contact UKCloud if you
need assistance in this area.

## Is my data visible to other organisations on the platform?

No, none of the data held within your organisation's Email and
Collaboration as a Service is visible to any other organisation or user.

## Is there a minimum number of mailboxes required?

Yes, there is a minimum charge of 25 mailboxes per month required to set
up Email and Collaboration as a Service.

## Is any spam software included?

Yes, mail hygiene is provided via Cisco IronPort® for internet-facing
solutions, providing protection against spam and malware. In addition,
there is a centralised mail scanning solution within the PSN; combined
with the fact that as a restricted network, spam is much less of an
issue than with internet connections.

## Is there a mail archive solution?

Yes, an archive option is available at an additional cost per GB per
month. Pricing is available in the Digital Marketplace, or via your
partner or UKCloud account director.

## Is there a backup and disaster recovery solution?

Yes, the service is deployed across multiple sites to provide service
continuity in the event of a localised disaster. In addition, the
service is backed up daily.

## Is there an option to recover deleted email or tasks?

Yes, as standard, the service offers a dumpster folder which retains
items (such as messages and appointments) that have been deleted by the
user from the mailbox and trash folder for 30 days. The item to be
recovered during this period.

## What is the briefcase functionality?

Briefcase is a document storing and sharing function that allows users
to upload files to the mail store, so that they can access those files
from anywhere via the Email and Collaboration as a Service mail client.

## How long does it take to get the solution up and running?

Within five days of accepting your order, we'll create your primary
administrator account and send you a welcome pack, which includes the
URL for the UKCloud Portal, mailbox services and associated
authentication details.

Your administrator can then set policies, create additional user
accounts and allocate roles and privileges for users within their
project or organisation. Each user can then log on and begin using the
service.

Set up of client-based software or mobile devices may be required,
depending on your chosen access methods.

The length of time for the solution to be fully operational depends on
the amount of work you require once you've received the welcome pack.

## What are your service maintenance windows?

As far as possible, planned maintenance of UKCloud's infrastructure
takes place between the hours of 00:00 and 06:00 (UK local time) Monday
to Sunday, or between the hours of 08:00 and 12:00 (UK local time) on a
Saturday or Sunday. We provide customers with at least 14 days advance
notice of planned maintenance.

As far as possible, emergency maintenance of UKCloud's infrastructure
takes place between the hours of 00:00 and 06:00 (UK local time) Monday
to Sunday, or between the hours of 08:00 and 12:00 (UK local time) on
Saturday or Sunday, unless there is an identified and demonstrable
immediate risk to a customer's environment. Whenever possible, we
provide customers with at least six hours' advance notice of emergency
maintenance.

## Can I use the service as a short-term solution, such as for a couple of months?

Yes. The service is paid for monthly in arrears, and there is no
termination charge for cancelling it. Please note that it is your
responsibility to extract all of your data prior to the service being
terminated, after which we will erase all data.

## How can I pay for the service?

Billing for the service is:

- Via purchase order

- At point of order for up-front fees

- Annually in advance for pre-payment fees

- Monthly in arrears for monthly fees

Payment can be made by direct bank transfer (BACS/CHAPS).

## How can I monitor my usage?

You can access usage and billing information at any time via the secure
UKCloud Portal. Details of this portal will be included as part of the
welcome pack.

## Will emails to other GSI addresses go through the internet on Elevated Zimbra?

No, it will go via the PSN gateways controlled by Vodafone.

## Does outbound mail at Elevated go through the GSI gateway?

Yes, you'll need to register your email address with Vodafone to
traverse the gateway.

## Can I arrange for a mailbox usage report?

Yes, this can be created for you on request. You'll need to raise a
Service Request in the 'My Calls' section of the UKCloud Portal.

## Feedback

If you find an issue with this article, click **Improve this Doc** to suggest a change. If you have an idea for how we could improve any of our services, visit [UKCloud Ideas](https://ideas.ukcloud.com). Alternatively, you can contact us at <products@ukcloud.com>.
