---
title: Managed Monitoring as a Service Service Scope
description: Outlines important details regarding Managed Monitoring as a Service
services: managed-operations
author: sdixon
reviewer: sdixon
lastreviewed: 04/02/2022
toc_rootlink: Managed IT Operations
toc_sub1: Managed Monitoring as a Service
toc_sub2:
toc_sub3:
toc_sub4:
toc_title: Managed Monitoring as a Service Service Scope
toc_fullpath: Managed IT Operations/Managed Monitoring as a Service/man-sco-monitoring.md
toc_mdlink: man-sco-monitoring.md
---

# Managed Monitoring as a Service Service Scope

## About this document

This document is for customers considering purchasing Managed Monitoring as a Service.

It describes the boundaries of the service, along with the division of responsibilities between UKCloud and the customer to facilitate the service.

## About Managed Monitoring as a Service

Managed Monitoring as a Service is UKCloud's multi-cloud monitoring service, designed for customers who want to:

- Incorporate, consolidate and extend your current monitoring platforms and any new requirements in to a single, as a service, solution

- Gain a reliable and trusted view of the health of your entire IT infrastructure

- Monitor any device from anywhere, via the internet or the various community networks UKCloud supports

- Concentrate on creating and managing applications and increasing business value rather than managing virtual infrastructure

- Reduce the number of 'false-positive' alerts and associated out of hours call-outs. Utilise UKCloud's 24x7x365 Network Operations Centre (NOC) to be the initial responder to events, only escalating those that genuinely need further investigation

- Increase the uptime of your IT estate through faster identification, triage and alert escalations

## Scope of Managed Monitoring as a Service

The following table outlines the scope of Managed Monitoring as a Service:

| Monitoring Element                     | Detail |
|----------------------------------------|--------|
| Event Monitors                         | - Ping check <BR> - SNMP check  <BR> - Open port check <BR> - Deviation of Windows Server service from an 'agreed good' status <BR> - URL response check <BR>- HTTPS certificate expiry check<BR> - Webhooks\* (only HTTP/HTTPS RestAPI inbound to UKCloud)|
| Compute, Disk, Memory (CDM) Monitoring | Reactive monitoring and alerting  of Compute, Disk and Memory capacity events. <BR> Thresholds will initially be set with default values unless otherwise advised by the customer.  |
| Alerting                               | UKCloud will alert customers via their chosen notification method (support ticket with email notification or phone escalation) based on a threshold breach of one of the above elements. |

\* May require engagement with a Cloud Architect to ensure correct integration

> [!NOTE]
> You can request changes to default thresholds via a service request from within the [My Calls](https://portal.skyscapecloud.com/support/ivanti) section of the UKCloud Portal.

## Service Level Agreement

### Service levels

Service levels for Managed Monitoring as a Service are spilt out into the following two targets:

- **Availability** - UKCloud offers an availability SLA of 99.99% (excluding Planned Maintenance) for all elements of our monitoring service that reside within UKCloud's direct control. For the avoidance of doubt, this scope covers the entire data flow path from the VPN termination point within our 'Management Bubble' through to the customer ticket notification being generated by our IT service management tooling (Ivanti).

- **Alert Notification** - UKCloud will notify the customer within 15 minutes of the point when UKCloud receives any event meeting the agreed conditions to trigger an alert. The method of notification will be dependent upon the Alert Type the customer has defined against the event as per the following table.

#### Default Alert handling procedures

Alert Code     | Alert Type | UKCloud Action
---------------|---------------|---------------
E1   | Critical            | 1 - Incident Logged against the Escalation Contact via the UKCloud Portal<br>2 - Email notification to Escalation Contact with ticket details (Automatic by Ivanti)<br>3 - Ticket remains on **Logged** until customer acknowledges and closes the incident via the UKCloud Portal <br>4 - (OPTIONAL) Phone call to Escalation Contact; if no response then voicemail and update ticket with voicemail details
E2    | Major           | 1 - Incident Logged against the Escalation Contact via the UKCloud Portal<br>2 - Email notification to Escalation Contact with ticket details (Automatic by Ivanti)<br>3 - Ticket remains on **Logged** until customer acknowledges and closes the incident via the UKCloud Portal <br>4 - Ticket will automatically be closed if no further update is received after 7 calendar days

### Service level exclusions

UKCloud excludes any time needed to complete Planned or Emergency Maintenance from any time-based calculations related to service availability. In these events, you'll be notified accordingly as described in our [Terms and Conditions](https://docs.ukcloud.com/articles/other/other-ref-terms-and-conditions.html). Other exceptions may also be outlined in the Terms and Conditions. In addition, any elements outside of UKCloud's direct control (as outlined in 'Availability' above) will not be included in any service availability or Service Credit calculations.

### Service Credits

Managed Monitoring as a Service customers can raise a request for Service Credits if they feel a breach of the Service Level Agreement has occurred. Customers are entitled to claim 1% of Managed Monitoring as a Service spend, per affected customer environment, where one of the following conditions are met:

- Per 1% breach of Availability target 

- Per 5 minutes over Alert Notification target 

A monthly cap on Service Credits applies, up to and not beyond the full amount a customer is charged for the Managed Monitoring as a Service service within the same billing period that Service Credit entitlement occurred.

> [!NOTE]
> A claim for Service Credits against the Alert Notification target cannot be raised within the same period where a claim for Availability Service Credits has also been made.

## Service provisioning

You can request Managed Monitoring as a Service via your Service Delivery Manager or by using the [My Calls](https://portal.skyscapecloud.com/support/ivanti) section of the UKCloud Portal.

Within 5 business days of accepting an order, UKCloud will create the customer's monitoring environment with default thresholds (unless otherwise specified) and commence monitoring any environments that have been elected to be monitored by the customer.

## Customer responsibilities

The control and management of access and responsibilities for end users, including appropriate connectivity, security and accreditation if required. If access is required over government secure networks such as HSCN, Janet, RLI or PSN (including legacy networks), the customer is responsible for adhering to the Code of Connection.

Allowing UKCloud access into customer environments to capture any necessary metrics, alerts or triggers required to provide accurate and reliable monitoring.

Ensuring only appropriate data (for example OFFICIAL) is stored and processed by applications on this environment and that they comply with the UKCloud Security Operating Procedures (SyOps) and other Information Assurance requirements as specified in the UKCloud System Interconnect and Security Policy (SISP) and associated accreditation documentation sets.

## Feedback

If you find a problem with this article, click **Improve this Doc** to make the change yourself or raise an [issue](https://github.com/UKCloud/documentation/issues) in GitHub. If you have an idea for how we could improve any of our services, send an email to <feedback@ukcloud.com>.
