---
title: How to view proxy logs in a multi-network OpenShift cluster | UKCloud Ltd
description: Explains how to view the logs of the squid proxy in your cluster
services: openshift
author: koneill
reviewer: alillistone
lastreviewed: 07/01/2022

toc_rootlink: How To
toc_sub1: OpenShift v3.x
toc_sub2:
toc_sub3:
toc_sub4:
toc_title: View proxy logs in a multi-network OpenShift cluster
toc_fullpath: How To/oshift-how-view-proxy-logs.md
toc_mdlink: oshift-how-view-proxy-logs.md
---

#### UKCloud Limited (“UKC”) and Virtual Infrastructure Group Limited (“VIG”) (together “the Companies”) – in Compulsory Liquidation

On 25 October 2022, the Companies were placed into Liquidation with the Official Receiver appointed as Liquidator and J Robinson and A M Hudson simultaneously appointed as Special Managers to manage the liquidation process on behalf of the Official Receiver.

Further information regarding the Liquidations can be found here: <https://www.gov.uk/government/news/virtual-infrastructure-group-limited-and-ukcloud-limited-information-for-creditors-and-interested-parties>

Contact details:<br>
For any general queries relating to the Liquidations please email <ukcloud@uk.ey.com><br>
For customer related queries please email <ukcloudcustomers@uk.ey.com><br>
For supplier related queries please email <ukcloudsuppliers@uk.ey.com>

# How to view proxy logs in a multi-network OpenShift cluster

## Overview

UKCloud for Red Hat OpenShift enables you to develop, deploy, and manage digital and container-based applications seamlessly across local physical or virtual environments, with full portability to and from UKCloud.

This article explains how you can view the connection logs generated by the squid proxy in your OpenShift cluster to identify potential connection issues, such as attempting to access endpoints that aren't on the allow-list.

### Prerequisites

Your OpenShift cluster must have access to multiple networks, be version 3.11, and must have proxy logging enabled. Any OpenShift clusters deployed from November 2019 will have proxy logging enabled.

## Viewing logs

In multi-network 3.11 clusters, we run a proxy service on the control plane load balancers to access Red Hat's container registry `registry.redhat.io` during the deployment and scaling process. The proxy also allows you to enable controlled access to internet endpoints from all nodes, providing you pass the correct variables to your pods and have added the endpoint to your allow-list. You may inadvertently be traversing the proxy when you do not want to or attempting to hit endpoints that are not on the allow-list, which will cause you to get 403 forbidden messages in the logs. The proxy logs contain information about these denials.

As a customer, while you don't have direct access to the proxy logs, we send them through to a set of fluentd pods in a project called `proxy-showback`. These logs are then forwarded on to the clusters' aggregated logging and you can view them in the Kibana dashboard in the `openshift-logging` project, usually available on kibana.<cluster_domain_suffix>

Set a filter of `kubernetes_namespace_name: "proxy-showback"` to filter only for the logs from the pods receiving the proxy logs and show only the message. You can then query the message field for the particular IP/endpoint you're looking for. From here you can see if it's being denied and update the allow-list as needed.

## Further reading

<https://docs.ukcloud.com/articles/openshift/oshift-how-add-domains-proxy-allow-list.html>

<https://docs.ukcloud.com/articles/openshift/oshift-ref-no-proxy.html>

<https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.11/install_config/http_proxies.html>

## Next steps

For more information about the UKCloud for Red Hat OpenShift service, see:

- [*Getting Started Guide for UKCloud for Red Hat OpenShift*](oshift-gs.md)

- [*UKCloud for Red Hat OpenShift FAQs*](oshift-faq.md)

## Feedback

If you find a problem with this article, click **Improve this Doc** to make the change yourself or raise an [issue](https://github.com/UKCloud/documentation/issues) in GitHub. If you have an idea for how we could improve any of our services, send an email to <feedback@ukcloud.com>.
