---
title: How to view your OpenShift router logs | UKCloud Ltd
description: Explains how to view the logs on the OpenShift routers
services: openshift
author: Gareth Ellner
reviewer:
lastreviewed: 

toc_rootlink: How To
toc_sub1:
toc_sub2:
toc_sub3:
toc_sub4:
toc_title: View your router logs
toc_fullpath: How To/oshift-how-view-router-logs.md
toc_mdlink: oshift-how-view-router-logs.md
---

# How to view your OpenShift router logs

## Overview

UKCloud for OpenShift enables you to develop, deploy, and manage digital and container-based applications seamlessly across local physical or virtual environments, with full portability to and from UKCloud.

This guide explains how you can view the connection logs generated by the OpenShift routers in your environment.

### Intended audience

This guide assumes familiarity with the Linux command line, and with the `oc` command set to manage an OpenShift cluster.

### Prerequisites

To complete the steps in this guide, you must have the `oc` command installed and have a suitable account on your OpenShift cluster. Specifically, it is assumed you know the authentication credentials that need to be supplied to `oc` login.

Your OpenShift cluster must be version 3.11 or later, and must be enabled for router logging. If your OpenShift routers do not have the "syslog" sidecar container enabled then raise a request on the UKCloud portal requesting this functionality.

## Viewing the logs for a specific router

1. Log in to OpenShift on the command line and change to the default project:

       oc login ...
       oc project openshift-infra

2. Check if a monitoring account already exists:

       oc get serviceaccount --all-namespaces | grep infra | \
       grep monitoring

    If the account exists, the command above prints the name, and you can move on to [Reading the authentication token](#reading-the-authentication-token). If it prints nothing, you need to create the account as described in the remaining steps below.

3. Create the monitoring account if it does not exist:

       oc create serviceaccount monitoring

4. Add the role cluster-reader to the account:

       oc adm policy add-cluster-role-to-user cluster-reader \
       system:serviceaccount:openshift-infra:monitoring

## Reading the authentication token

Next, you need to retrieve the authentication token that you created in the previous step.

1. If you haven't already done so, ensure you are logged in to OpenShift and connected to the right project:

       oc login ...
       oc project openshift-infra

2. Find the name of the monitoring account's token IDs:

       oc describe serviceaccount monitoring

    This lists the IDs of one or more token names, for example, `monitoring-token-1abc2`.

3. Find the actual authentication token by querying the secret by the name given in the previous step, for example:

       oc describe secret <monitoring-token>

    Where `monitoring-token` is the token name you found in the previous step.

    This lists a few values, including the 179-character authentication token.

## Viewing logs for all routers in the cluster

...

## Next steps

For more information about UKCloud for OpenShift service, see:

- [*Getting Started Guide for UKCloud for OpenShift*](oshift-gs.md)

- [*UKCloud for OpenShift FAQs*](oshift-faq.md)

## Feedback

If you find an issue with this article, click **Improve this Doc** to suggest a change. If you have an idea for how we could improve any of our services, visit [UKCloud Ideas](https://ideas.ukcloud.com). Alternatively, you can contact us at <products@ukcloud.com>.
